---
layout: article
title: Mapbase within HL2's settings
permalink: /docs/hl2/hl2-settings/
breadcrumb: true
---

Mapbase introduces a number of changes or quality-of-life features that relate to specific settings of Half-Life 2, sometimes by design. This article is intended to be a guide for finding changes that can assist in developing for these settings, or for developing similar settings.

Note that most of these changes are additive in nature; Mapbase is not intended to damage any existing workflow or design.

### Point Insertion

Mapbase makes many of the entities involved with *Point Insertion* easier to use and manage.

* `script_intro` is responsible for the blending effects seen in the G-Man intro in `d1_trainstation_01`. Previously, its use cases were limited because it did not draw the viewmodel or skybox correctly, which Mapbase has fixed.
* `npc_metropolice` has special AI to serve as passive cops in the first levels. Mapbase exposes this AI through new I/O to control how many warnings they've given and agitate them to chase the player.
* `ai_goal_actbusy` is used to make citizens walk around, get food packages, and do special idle animations throughout the chapter. Mapbase now allows map-specific actbusy scripts to be loaded (`maps/%mapname%_actbusy.txt`) with a few miscellaneous improvements, making it easier to integrate the actbusy system without requiring a dedicated mod.

### "A Red Letter Day"

* `item_suit` now makes the previously unused "Short Logon" spawnflag prevent the "admire gloves" animation from playing.
* `logic_choreographed_scene` now supports raw `.vcd` files without having to build `scenes.image`.

### Route Kanal/Water Hazard

* `weapon_stunstick` can be found at the beginning of the chapter, but it normally cannot be picked up and only serves as a small battery. Mapbase adds a `hl2_gamerules` entity which allows the stunstick's pickup behavior to be changed and allow players to pick up stunsticks as weapons.
* `npc_metropolice` now supports additional weapons as well as new I/O to control their manhack carrying behavior (e.g. `DeployManhack` to deploy a manhack immediately).
* `item_item_crate` now supports the ability to use a custom crate model and the ability to spawn entities from a `point_template` instead of just a given classname. An `OnItem` output has also been added, which fires for each item. The `OnItem` output also fires for each item generated by an `item_dynamic_resupply`.
* `env_headcrabcanister` now supports an `OnCrab` output which fires for each crab that comes out of the canister. A `StopHissing` input has also been added to silence a canister's hissing, which was previously continuous.
* `npc_helicopter` now has an `OutBomb` output, which fires for each time the helicopter drops a bomb. The ability to use a custom FOV (which would normally be 360 degrees/all angles) has been added as well.

### Black Mesa East

* The turrets in the airlock now have a NPC counterpart called `npc_turret_lab`.
